# Contributing

First off, thanks for taking the time to contribute! The following is a set of guidelines for contributing. Use your best judgment, and feel free to propose changes to this document in a pull request.

## Table of Contents
- [How Can I Contribute?](#how-can-i-contribute)
- [Pull Requests](#pull-requests)
- [Styleguides](#styleguides)

## How Can I Contribute?

- Clone or fork the repository
- Create your feature branch
	- `git checkout -b feature/fooBarz` or by using GitFlow `git flow feature start fooBarz`
- Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some fooBar'`)
- Push to your feature branch
	- `git push origin feature/fooBarz` or by using GitFlow `git flow feature publish fooBarz`
- Create a new [Pull Request](#pull-requests)

## Pull Requests

The process described here has several goals:

- Maintain quality
- Fix problems that are important to users
- Enable a sustainable system for maintainers to review contributions

Please follow these steps to have your contribution considered by the maintainers:

- Follow the [styleguides](#styleguides)
- If you create a patch also include appropriate test cases
- Before you submit a pull request verify that all tests pass
- Add a line in the CHANGELOG.md under Unreleased
- Update the README.md with details of changes
- Increase the version numbers in any examples files and the README.md to the new version that this Pull Request would represent. The versioning scheme we use is [SemVer](http://semver.org/)
- You may merge the Pull Request in once you have the sign-off of minimal one other developer, or if you do not have permission to do that, you may request the reviewer to merge it for you.

## Styleguides

### Git

#### Commit Message Guidelines

```
Short (72 chars or less) summary

More detailed explanatory text. Wrap it to 72 characters. The bl ank
line separating the summary from the body is critical (unless you omit
the body entirely).

Write your commit message in the imperative: "Fix bug" and not "Fixed
bug" or "Fixes bug." This convention matches up with commit messages
generated by commands like git merge and git revert.

Further paragraphs come after blank lines.

- Bullet points are okay, too.
- Typically a hyphen or asterisk is used for the bullet, followed by a
  single space. Use a hanging indent.
```

#### Example for a commit message

```
Add CPU arch filter scheduler support

In a mixed environment of…
```

#### Rules for a great git commit message style

- Separate subject from body with a blank line
- Do not end the subject line with a period
- Capitalize the subject line and each paragraph
- Use the imperative mood in the subject line
- Wrap lines at 72 characters
- Use the body to explain what and why you have done something. In most cases, you can leave out details about how a change has been made.

#### Information in commit messages

- Describe why a change is being made.
- How does it address the issue?
- What effects does the patch have?
- Do not assume the reviewer understands what the original problem was.
- Do not assume the code is self-evident/self-documenting.
- Read the commit message to see if it hints at improved code structure.
- The first commit line is the most important.
- Describe any limitations of the current code.
- Do not include patch set-specific comments.

##### References in commit messages
If the commit refers to an issue, add this information to the commit message header or body.

In header:

`[#123] Refer to GitHub issue…`   
`CAT-123 Refer to Jira ticket with project identifier CAT…`

In body:  

```
…
Fixes #123, #124
```

#### Sources

- [Git Commit Message Guidelines](https://gist.github.com/robertpainsi/b632364184e70900af4ab688decf6f53/03c5baa7a04d35cef9edf42bc1d7f68d1e2d36a1)
